docs: translate extend-workbench (#584)
DTStack/molecule: website/docs/guides/extend-workbench.md

sidebar_label: Workbench
---

[Workbench][workbench-url] is the most core partial in Molecule, we imitate the wonderful design of **VSCode Workbench** based on **React**, and provide a simple **Workbench UI** to support extend, by which it could be fully customized.

## Core Conception

![molecule](/img/guides/workbench-ui.png)

We divide the Workbench UI into six modules, including [MenuBar](#menubar), [ActivityBar](#activitybar), [Sidebar](#sidebar), [Editor](#editor), [Panel](#panel), [StatusBar](#statusbar):

-   **MenuBar**: For managing the menu bar in workbench, like **File**, **Edit**, **Selection**, **View** and so on.
-   **ActivityBar**: For showing the **active bar** in workbench, like [Explorer](./extend-builtin-ui#Explorer), [Search](./extend-builtin-ui#Search) and other bars. It's noticed that the ActivityBar should cooperate with other modules in general. For example, the Sidebar is going to show the correspond panel when switching the ActivityBar.
-   **Sidebar**: In general, it's as a significant navigator part placed in the left of workbench like the built-in [Explorer](./extend-builtin-ui#explorer).

> -   **Editor**: For editing some data in tabs. In general, we can **edit the codes** in Editor. Or you can render your own editor UI. Molecule will have an **Entry** in **Editor** when without the tabs. Obviously, the Entry Page is support customize.

Reviewer: customize 同样加粗

> -   **Panel**: In general, it's placed on the below of the Editor for rendering some panels like [Problems](./extend-builtin-ui#problems-), [Output](extend-builtin-ui#output), **Terminal**, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Panel**: In general, it's placed on the below of the Editor for rendering some panels like [Problems](./extend-builtin-ui#problems), [Output](extend-builtin-ui#output), **Terminal**, and so on.
```

-   **StatusBar**: It's placed on the bottom of Workbench for rendering the **status infomations**. For example, the **Language** informations of current file in Editor, or the informations about the **Columns** and **Line** of cursor, or the [Notification](./extend-builtin-ui#notification).

:::tip

> There are not real function with the isolated module, which is only for pure rendering. If you want to achieve some specific commerial scenarios, we should integrate with other modules, like integrating **ActivityBar** with **Sidebar**, or intergrating **FolerTree** with **Editor** and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
There is do not real function with the isolated module, which is only for pure rendering. If you want to achieve some specific commerial scenarios, you should integrate one with other modules, like integrating **ActivityBar** with **Sidebar**, or intergrating **FolderTree** with **Editor** and so on.
```

> Besides, for reducing the work of developing in UI, we have a majority of [**built-in components**](./extend-builtin-ui), refer to [参考](./extend-builtin-ui) about the detail usage.

Reviewer: 最后一句感觉有点怪怪的

Author: 感觉还好，不是特别怪。或者你直接 insert suggestion 把这里改了

:::

## Extend Workbench

> We will thoroughly indicate How to extend **workbench** via **Extension** and the built-in **API**s in the part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will thoroughly indicate how to extend **Workbench** via **Extension** and the built-in **API**s in this part.
```

}
```

> The `renderPane` belonged to `createDataSourceTab` is a customize render function for tab content, which returns a `CreateDataSourceView` component here. It's noticed that the default render of Editor is a **monaco-editor** view. If we want to modify a **SQL** text, we can execute like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `renderPane` belonged to `createDataSourceTab` is a customize **render function** for **tab content**, which returns a `CreateDataSourceView` component here. It's noticed that the default render of Editor is a **monaco-editor** view. If we want to modify a **SQL** text, we can execute like the following:
```

molecule.statusBar.remove(languageBar.id, Float.right);
```

The `Float.left/Float.right` in code is used for setting the rendering position in the **left** or **right** of status bar.

> If we want to **customize Statusbar**'s content, we can by `render` function, such as [**icons**](./icons)：

Reviewer: 中间这句感觉有点怪

> If we want to **customize Statusbar**'s content, we can by `render` function, such as [**icons**](./icons)：

Author: ```suggestion
We can **customize Statusbar**'s content by `render` function, such as [**icons**](./icons)：
```
